DOCS-1285: Document Micro-RDK supported models (#2072)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/micro-rdk/motor/gpio.md

---
title: "Configure a gpio motor"
linkTitle: "gpio"
weight: 10
type: "docs"
description: "Configure brushed or brushless DC motors."
images: ["/icons/components/motor.svg"]
# SMEs: Rand, James
---

The `gpio` model supports [DC motors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DC_motor) (both brushed and brushless).

You can configure [encoders](/micro-rdk/encoder/) to work with `gpio` motors.
Find more information in the [encoded motor documentation](/components/motor/gpio/encoded-motor/).

> To configure a DC motor as a component of your robot, first configure the [board](/micro-RDK/board/) to which the motor driver is wired.

Author: ```suggestion
To configure a DC motor as a component of your robot, first configure the [board](/micro-rdk/board/) to which the motor driver is wired.
```

> To configure a DC motor as a component of your robot, first configure the [board](/components/board/) to which the motor driver is wired.

Author: ```suggestion
To configure a DC motor as a component of your robot, first configure the [board](/micro-RDK/board/) to which the motor driver is wired.
```

---
title: "Configure a gpio motor"
linkTitle: "gpio"
weight: 10
type: "docs"
description: "Configure brushed or brushless DC motors."
images: ["/icons/components/motor.svg"]
# SMEs: Rand, James
---

The `gpio` model supports [DC motors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DC_motor) (both brushed and brushless).

You can configure [encoders](/micro-rdk/encoder/) to work with `gpio` motors.
Find more information in the [encoded motor documentation](/components/motor/gpio/encoded-motor/).

> To configure a DC motor as a component of your robot, first configure the [board](/components/board/) to which the motor driver is wired.

Reviewer: Since this page is esp32-specific, should this sentence and/or the link in it be more specific?

Author: See comment below-- I think ok for now as micro-RDK will hopefully not always be just ESP32

Reviewer: I see what you mean and thought about it more--shouldn't the link still go to micro-rdk/board?

Author: Yes, absolutely! Sorry for the confusion

      "depends_on": [],
    },
    {
      "name": "<your-motor-name>",
      "model": "gpio",
      "type": "motor",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "attributes": {
        "pins": {
          <...>
        },
        "board": "<your-board-name>",
        "min_power_pct": <float>,
        "max_power_pct": <float>,
        "pwm_freq": <float>,
        "dir_flip": <float>,
        "en_low": <float>
      },
      "depends_on": []
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Example" %}}

An example configuration for a `gpio` motor:

```json
{
  "components": [
    {
      "name": "local",
      "model": "pi",
      "type": "board",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "attributes": {},
      "depends_on": []
    },
    {
      "name": "example-gpio",
      "model": "gpio",
      "type": "motor",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "attributes": {
        "pins": {
          "dir": "36",
          "pwm": "32"
        },
        "board": "local"
      },
      "depends_on": []
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The following attributes are available for `gpio` motors:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Name | Type | Inclusion | Description |
| ---- | ---- | --------- | ----------- |

> | `board` | string | **Required** | `name` of the [board](/components/board/) to which the motor driver is wired. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `board` | string | **Required** | `name` of the [board](/micro-rdk/board/) to which the motor driver is wired. |
```
How about this? So that they stay within micro-RDK land?

  - Configure `pwm` and `dir`.
- In1/In2 and PWM: Use this if your motor driver uses three pins: In1 (A) and In2 (B) to control direction and a separate PWM pin to control speed.
  - Configure `a`, `b`, and `pwm`.

Inside the `pins` struct you need to configure **two or three** of the following, depending on your motor driver:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Name | Type | Inclusion | Description |
| ---- | ---- | --------- | ----------- |
| `a` | string | **Required** for some drivers | Board {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pin-number" text="pin number" >}} this motor driver's "IN1" or "A" pin is wired to. |
| `b` | string | **Required** for some drivers | Board {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pin-number" text="pin number" >}} this motor driver's "IN2" or "B" pin is wired to. |
| `dir` | string | **Required** for some drivers | Board {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pin-number" text="pin number" >}} this motor driver's direction ("DIR") pin is wired to. |

> | `pwm` | string | **Required** for some drivers | Board {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pin-number" text="pin number" >}} this motor driver's "PWM" pin is wired to. |

Reviewer: Is this actually required for all micro-RDK-controlled motors? The text above the table implies it is.

Author: Oh yes I suppose it is! Great catch!

> | `pwm` | string | **Required** for some drivers | Board {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pin-number" text="pin number" >}} this motor driver's "PWM" pin is wired to. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `pwm` | string | **Required** | Board {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pin-number" text="pin number" >}} this motor driver's "PWM" pin is wired to. |
```

> {{% alert title="Important" color="note" %}}

Reviewer: This alert doesn't make sense if the in1/in2 option doesn't apply to micro-RDK-controlled motors. Should it be removed? Why is it that one of the options does not apply for micro-rdk?

Author: I didn't realize that, I'll remove the alert! I'm not sure why Gautham/Nico decided to implement it that why but it was specified on the notes that that third option was not available.

        "pins": {
          <...>
        },
        "board": "<your-board-name>",
        "max_rpm": <int>,
        "min_power_pct": <float>,
        "max_power_pct": <float>,
        "pwm_freq": <float>,
        "dir_flip": <float>,
        "en_low": <float>
      },
      "depends_on": []
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Example" %}}

An example configuration for a `gpio` motor:

```json
{
  "components": [
    {
      "name": "local",
      "model": "pi",
      "type": "board",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "attributes": {},
      "depends_on": []
    },
    {
      "name": "example-gpio",
      "model": "gpio",
      "type": "motor",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "attributes": {
        "pins": {
          "dir": "36",
          "pwm": "32"
        },
        "board": "local",
        "max_rpm": 500
      },
      "depends_on": []
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The following attributes are available for `gpio` motors:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Name | Type | Inclusion | Description |
| ---- | ---- | --------- | ----------- |
| `board` | string | **Required** | `name` of the [board](/components/board/) to which the motor driver is wired. |

> | `max_rpm` | int | **Required** | This is an estimate of the maximum RPM the motor will run at with full power under no load. The [`GoFor`](/components/motor/#gofor) method calculates how much power to send to the motor as a percentage of `max_rpm`. If unknown, you can set it to 100, which will mean that giving 40 as the `rpm` argument to `GoFor` or `GoTo` will set it to 40% speed. ***Not required** or available for [encoded](/components/motor/gpio/encoded-motor/) `gpio` motors.* |

Reviewer 2: can we actually remove "max_rpm"? GoFor is not supported anyway and I think having this attribute as required is confusing. I'll make it so that micro-RDK doesn't expect it right now

Author: Done, removed

---

> title: "Configure a gpio motor"

Reviewer 3: So this page is fairly the same as the gpio motor one I assume?

Author: It is very similar with a difference in pin configuration options

linkTitle: "gpio"
weight: 10
type: "docs"
description: "Configure brushed or brushless DC motors."
images: ["/icons/components/motor.svg"]
# SMEs: Rand, James
---

The `gpio` model supports [DC motors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DC_motor) (both brushed and brushless).

> [Encoders](/components/encoder/) can be configured to work with `gpio` motors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can configure [encoders](/micro-rdk/encoder/) to work with `gpio` motors.
```

Author: Great catch, thank you! Done

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Name | Type | Inclusion | Description |
| ---- | ---- | --------- | ----------- |
| `a` | string | **Required** for some drivers | Board {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pin-number" text="pin number" >}} this motor driver's "IN1" or "A" pin is wired to. |
| `b` | string | **Required** for some drivers | Board {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pin-number" text="pin number" >}} this motor driver's "IN2" or "B" pin is wired to. |
| `dir` | string | **Required** for some drivers | Board {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pin-number" text="pin number" >}} this motor driver's direction ("DIR") pin is wired to. |
| `pwm` | string | **Required** for some drivers | Board {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pin-number" text="pin number" >}} this motor driver's "PWM" pin is wired to. |

{{% alert title="Important" color="note" %}}

Only two or three of these `pins` attributes are required, depending on your motor driver.

If your motor drivers uses only In1 and In2, and not a third PWM pin, **do not configure a `pwm` pin**.

{{% /alert %}}

{{< readfile "/static/include/components/test-control/motor-control.md" >}}

> ## Next steps

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done
